The Old Main has a kind of a well.
The building is a loading dock area.
And there was a place called the Discard Room, a small place where they took the books and they had them, when they were in high discard mode,
This is how they did it.
They had an elaborate set of instructions that you bundled them up like this.
Now, did you selectively take these?
No, this just happened to be left one other time when I went in the old main building.
This one was just on a shelf, so I wanted to... And it was bound like that at that point?
Yeah, this is just the way they're drawn North Beach.
So this is a branch.
The branches all went through...
kind of a heavy weeding thing in order to make room for this surge of crop e-books.
And there's nothing wrong with that, except that it was poorly coordinated in that they did not check whether that was the last copy of a given book in the system.
And some of the branches have nice old books that just went down.
You can't tell me these books weren't used, either.
Oh, well, yeah.
These don't trouble me.
Really, because they're Duke.
I mean, you know, Are You My Mother is not going to break my heart if that goes to a landfill, right?
It's stupid for it to go to a landfill, since there are obviously places for it to go.
But the things that bothered me, now obviously I don't have any books that went to landfills because they're, you know, under tons of dirt.
But when I went to the discard room, they'd already had the bad press.
So, the stuff that was there then was being, some of it I think was still being, I think they would read through it, and some was being discarded, some was going to landfill, and some was going to the big book giveaways.
I just went through and randomly picked out a bunch of stuff.
Book of Natural Wonders by Haynes?
I have a list of this, by the way.
Oh, you do?
Okay.
Because in that first speech, I said, what I did when I was giving the speech was I just walked on stage with a bunch of books, and I just said, you know, there's Leibniz's Logical Papers, an Oxford book.
Do you mind if I take a couple of pictures of you?
Do you have any problems with that?
That speech, by the way, is considered the defining moment.
You know that, right?
Well, it was the defining moment for me.
I mean, I think it may have helped interest some other people in the problems that were already there.
I think it galvanized people.
It actually brought people into the... But it was a shocking and disgraceful story.
You can talk.
I'm just... Okay, yeah.
So what had happened when I was in the discard room,
They've just gone through the natural history, the bird section, and ethics, and geography.
Because what happens when you weed, you can't weed the whole library at once.
Don't worry about my pictures.
So they weeded one section at a time, which makes sense.
But the criterion they were using for reading was a numerical assignment of a kind of priority value or something assigned to each component of the collection.
And things like ethics were assigned a two, which was a low on a scale of one to six, a low priority level.
And so the librarians who were going through doing the reading, in order to comply with the administration,
were reading things that shouldn't have been drawn out.
So I got this whole box of stuff, and I guess it's a couple of boxes, and just walked out with it, because there was nobody there.
I just walked into the well of the building.
The door was unlocked.
I knew it was the discard room.
It says discard room on it, and it says, you know, pile of discards only this high.
It's about five feet high.
It says, no higher than this, pile of discards.
During the height of this madness, the room was, from time to time, full.
It was full of books.
It was really an insane thing.
Look at this, homing with the birds.
Right.
Now, this is a book that's the last copy of the
at the SFPL.
It's a library binding, which at one point, at least, it got a lot of use.
Clearly, yeah.
And we're not talking about it.
Even this one has gotten some use.
Jean Stratton Porter is kind of an interesting person.
What else did she wrote?
Jean, S-T-R-E-T-T-O-N dash P-O-R-T.
You wrote about this.
You mentioned this book, right?
Yeah.
I think so, yeah.
The Girl of the Limber Lost, I think, or something?
Anyway, you know, there was a PBS, made into a PBS thing.
She's a children's book writer, I think.
Yeah.
I'm not particularly interested in bird books.
It just happened that that day there were a lot of bird books, so I ended up talking about bird books.
But the funny thing was then the administration said, oh, well, he's got to be an important about bird books.
Yeah, this book's been used.
This book's been used.
Here's a nice one, The Way to Study Birds.
Okay, look at that.
Is that a lithograph?
Can I take a look?
Yeah.
And that's the last copy.
And the point is they didn't have enough.
Space is it.
Yeah, these are tipped in.
These could be lithographs, you know.
Look at that.
There's some stamps.
This is nice.
This is The Way to Study Birds by John Dryden, K-U-S-E-R, with some color illustrations by Putnam's, 1917, New York.
This was the one that really got me for some reason.
The Rivers of North America.
The reason why this could be discarded by the library was because they had a logic that an out-of-date book would be discarded.
Well, The Rivers of North America, 1907, by Israel Russell.
is indeed an out-of-date book.
I mean, the rivers are very different.
Well, out-of-date, in what respect?
That scholarship has gone beyond the latest?
Yes.
I mean, well, the point, yeah.
They have, for instance, here, Analysis of American River Waters, Reduced to Parts per Thousand.
Now, this study happened, you know, circa, whenever that was, 1907.
This may even be a later, slightly later edition.
It's the last copy in the library.
this is of great importance to the Bay Area because of, you know, the problem with aquifers and, you know, water here.
Anyway, so they've analyzed the trace minerals in this chart.
Now, just look also, this has been taped.
This has been used.
This book is not sitting around.
The claim can't be made that this is a book that hasn't been used.
Right.
Sorry, but that's... Yeah, yeah, well, it's been used.
And this guy...
wrote a bunch of other books which, well, so this was in the discard room.
So we know that they decided in their wisdom that The Rivers of North America was a book that should no longer be available to San Francisco, was of no interest.
In other words, they were deciding we will not be a research librarian anymore.
But I have that, I think I have this one on the computer discard list, right?
But there are a number of other books by Russell, who turns out to have worked for the U.S.
Geological Survey for a time, that are in the card catalog.
And the only reason I know that they're in the card catalog is because I had to sue them for access to the card catalog, and finally got a couple of drawers.
I got something, I think, 18 drawers of the card catalog sent over.
So I looked up.
One of the drawers I asked for was the one containing Russell.
So I looked up the cards for Russell and compared them with the records in the online catalog, some of which are so-called empty records, which mean that the books were purged.
And it turns out that there are more books in the card catalog than there are in the online catalog.
And I know that there have been earlier purges of the online records.
So all that indicates that
Well, you can assume two things.
Either that, in this case, that somebody was intently interested in stealing the other Russell books, which is highly unlikely because there are certain categories of books that are the objects of theft.
Astrology, sex books, how-to books are the big ones.
Also books with pretty nice old books with plates in them.
Books with plates are very, very easily...
But a book like this, which has no antiquarian value, really, because antiquarian books are generally bound at the San Francisco Public Library.
Right.
They don't want excrevers kind of thing.
So this book is very unlikely to be stolen, and the other kinds of books by Russell.
So what happened is that the librarian earlier purges, we did that book.
And so the only way you actually have getting a better idea of what was in the San Francisco Public Library before all of this recent insanity is by comparing the cart catalog with the online catalog.
Otherwise, you have no sense of what was actually there.
There are two ways.
That's one of the reasons they won't maybe want to get rid of the car catalog.
Well, that's what I charged in that thing, which is that, you know, in a sense, the car catalog is the only evidence of the... Now, there are problems with that, because many books were stolen, so they can always say, in a given instance, they can always say, well, you don't know, that book might have been stolen.
So we always have a way of, you know, covering, getting out of that.
But...
The real harm to the old collection was not done by casual book feeds.
The real harm was done by the systematic fleeting in accordance with a radical reconception.
Do you think it was a plan?
Coulter, by the way, says there's no plan.
I asked him yesterday, who sent the trucks there?
Who gave the order?
And he said, well, there's a lot of this, which doesn't show up on the tape.
He said, there's a lot of this going on, you know.
But we really, he said, I wanted an investigation, but we really don't know.
I said, you know, with all due respect, I said, that should be a pretty easy thing to find out, to find out who ordered the trucks.
You know, I mean, the chain of command on orders should be pretty easy to,
Well, I know who ordered the trucks, but the guy who ordered the trucks isn't to blame.
He was acting on the orders of a superior.
What happened was all libraries throw away books, and they had a quiet deal with the Department of Public Works, in which the Department of Public Works would pick up their things.
I don't know what they got in exchange.
I've never been able to find out what the incentive was.
They were, whenever they had a certain amount of surplus books that needed, we needed books or books that they wanted to get rid of, or the important branches or something, they called the DPW, and for no charge, with no records kept, apparently, because I just tried to get the records from the DPW.
Did you?
That's the second word that I'd like to call the DPW.
Well, no, no, good luck.
I mean, I talked to Pernu, who's the, you know,
I talked to the guy.
They have no record, they say.
Now, I have the actual number of the truck that did the regular pickups during the most recent 1996 session.
Was it a dump truck?
Was it a van?
Well, I can show you the pictures of it.
Oh, you got a picture of it?
Because staff members, you know, were upset by this.
I mean, there was, you know, there was mid-1996, when things really started to accelerate, there were some very, very unhappy librarians, technicians, pages.
I mean, it was a feeling that they were working within a system that was intent on destroying itself.
I suppose I sang it at the Department of Public Works.
Anyway, I know who the guy is who ordered the trucks, but he was simply doing a system that had been in place for many years.
We're not clear, but maybe a long time, but in very small quantity.
The point is that libraries have, say, many duplicates of books in print.
that are very hard to get rid of.
There are lots of reasons why a library might want to throw away books as opposed to trying to give them away.
Book dealers, book buyers don't want all books.
That's the fact.
Right.
So you've got a lot of paper that you have to get rid of.
And that's perfectly legitimate.
But what happened was that under the Dowland administration, they ramped up an existing program to discard books, to landfill books.
and made it a way of quietly, quietly purging the library of its older books.
And it happened beginning with the earthquake.
After the earthquake, there was a big, a sudden kind of panicked feeling that, well, we've got to leave, we've got to leave.
Well, it maybe gave them the cover.
It was a blessing in there that you could follow the sudden made it possible
to do something at an accelerated pace that wasn't possible, otherwise, previously.
Yeah, well, I mean, more than one librarian said to me, the best thing that ever happened to Ken Dallin.
The earthquake was the best thing that ever happened to Ken Dallin.
And the reason why they say that is because he, there were consultant reports floating around that said, the library has to be weeded.
This guy, Bill Holman, who you should talk to, was sort of like your Texas guy.
He had a dream to make San Francisco a really great research library, and he bought a lot of stuff.
This is probably a Holman-era book, 66.
All the 60s books.
Logical papers by Blackness.
Now, this is a two, and the title is Logical Fapers, edited by Parkinson's, G.H.R.
Parkinson, an Oxford, a Clarendon Press, not an Oxford View Press, but a Clarendon Press edition.
This, you know, is a valuable book.
you know, spent a lot of money buying books.
And that would not have been an inexpensive book to buy, by the way.
Right.
And they bought two of them, because that was the policy.
You buy two, or even three in some cases, if it's a... Probably not for this one.
So that if one wears out, you know, that you have... It's a prudent way of managing the collections, to buy one, have one circulate, one
So what the library was doing, the one thing was throwing away its boots, which to me is bad, but not as bad.
But the other thing they were doing was simply throwing away their last copy, which is a real thing.
That's when knowledge takes a real hit.
But in all these cases, this was part of the intellectual patrimony
San Francisco, this wasn't stuff owned by booksellers and book collectors and book dealers.
This was stuff that was owned by the citizenry of San Francisco, and therefore the management, I think, really had no right to decide that, you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of books ought to be
thrown away or given away.
That, I think, is a wasteful and possibly criminal act, a decision to deprive people for whom the San Francisco Public Library is really the only really good free library available to them of thousands of books that they can't get anywhere else
in the Bay Area.
I asked the three librarians that were here tonight, what's, you know, what would be a good solution for you under the circumstances?
I mean, would you like them to tear down the building?
And, you know, they really didn't have a... What would your response to that question be?
Well, I think that there's a great book building right across the street.
called the San Francisco Public Library building.
It still got stacks.
But the stacks were going to all be torn out for the Asian Art Museum.
So the sensible thing to do would be to say to the Asian Art Museum, we're terribly sorry.
Previous planners made a very bad decision.
This is the only building that currently, for very little expense, could hold.
all the books that are in San Francisco's communal collection.
This is the only building.
It's a beautiful building.
It's festooned with words relating to the nobility books.
It was designed to hold books.
It holds books very well.
And, I mean, it's right across the street, you know.
And that is the solution.
But, and actually the strange thing was, I wrote a letter to Willie Brown about it, saying, you know,
There are these malefactors.
Dallin was a good person to get rid of.
Kathy Page you ought to get rid of because she was the one most responsible for ordering the panic meeting.
And Roberto Estevez and Marcia Schneider and one other.
Price.
If you get rid of those administrators and you get rid of Poulter because he's
He allowed all this to happen, A, and B, his level of conflictedness of his interest.
So mind-blowing is to be, you know, every single day, he cannot make a disinterested decision because Pac Bell is the supplier of
electrical pipelines for the city.
So I thought there was a million-dollar phone bill there.
Did you know that?
Well, there's a big phone bill, yeah.
I thought it was in $980,000.
Yeah, I mean, it's in, yeah, $800,000, something like that.
I don't know.
Exactly.
There's a big phone bill, yeah.
And the phone bill is difficult to break out the phone bill, of course.
But what I'm saying, you're talking about just the appearance of a complex.
Well, he's actually had to recuse himself from decisions.
At Library Commission meetings, I cannot vote on whether or not to install a T1 line that would link the branches with several T1 lines, which are leased lines that the city would lease from Pac Bell in order to provide high-speed catalog links to the central computer.
He had to recuse himself because Pac Bell was trying to get the leased line revenue, at least possibly.
But to me, you can't just recuse yourself from that one decision because Pac Bell is in the business of digital storage and retrieval, of passing digitized information over space.
And that is part of the library's fundamental mission now.
Part of what a library does is allow you to look up things remotely.
The library has increasingly decided to do that, and one only has to infer that one of the reasons why the library has spent multi-million dollar sums on this is because it accords with Pac Bell's financial objectives
Ken Dowlin's enthusiasm, and that Coulter tolerated Ken Dowlin's mismanagement and inability to plan because Dowlin was willing to spend the kind of money in the direction that Coulter wanted to spend.
I mean, that's... He's ready to cut him loose now, by the way, Coulter.
Well, but he defended him.
I mean, he wanted...
I'm kind of stepping back a little bit now because I can't make a few mistakes.
Yeah, yeah.
But I love the sense of survival that it clicks every once in a while.
Well, when a guy's been, you know, in a way, I do think that Dowling is the person most to blame for the damage that was done to the collection, which is my, you know.
I'm seeing Dowling, by the way, where it's set Thursday night.
Interesting.
Not because I think he specifically threw the books in the truck or anything, but because he put in place an institutional climate that simply didn't value or pay attention to the basic requirements of book storage and book catalogs.
That was excellent.
That observation on the intellectual patrimony of San Francisco, it does crystallize it, capsulize it.
I'm reluctant.
The whole way that the argument has turned, the argument has become a financial one.
In other words,
How in debt did Dowling leave the librarian, and how much money was wasted?
I actually am less interested in the waste of money, because all public institutions waste money, and many great public institutions run deficits.
What I don't like is when a public institution vandalizes itself, you know, and decides, we will
spend, if not waste, a huge amount of money, and also almost gleefully.
I mean, I don't want to use charged words like defoliate or decimate or something.
We will harm the existing book collection.
That's what was so hard for me to understand when I first realized that was what was going so hard for me to believe.
But that is clearly what went on.
And I think that the moral that other libraries have to draw from that is that if you
I think I said this to you before, but if you hire a guy who is an enthusiast for cable TV, which he was, you can tell from his early book, and fancy computer systems and everything, you're not going to get somebody, unless you're really lucky, who has any notion of book culture.
Dallin was not a stupid man, but he was not a bookman.
He didn't understand.
He didn't understand what these things are.
He would talk about the warehouse mentality.
We have to get away from the warehouse mentality.
Book storage to him was, these books weren't moving.
the electrons weren't going.
You know, they were just sitting on a shelf.
I'm thinking of questions for Dallin.
If you were in my shoes going over there to see him in his home Thursday night, what would you like to see himself?
Well, I've heard him, I mean, he tends to say, I think you pointed this out, most of the digital futurists have learned not to say the book is dead.
You know,
They made that mistake ten years ago, and Dowling was certainly in the group of people who would say, well, I don't know where we're going.
We're going to be reading this stuff off the screen.
So they all made that mistake, and now they say the book is here to stay.
I don't hate books.
I love books.
So, I mean, I'd be interested to know what current variation.
I love books, but we have to, we can't be stuck in the past.
But specifically, a hard news kind of a question.
What do you think he should, I should ask him to account?
Well, I think he should, I think, did, you know, any, some people have suggested that
What's your response to, you know?
Right.
Why?
I mean, is there a number of— I mean, for yourself.
I mean, you certainly must have some burning questions that you'd like to ask them if you were— Well, I mean, I made a number of requests, legal requests, that were part of a suit.
And I know that the documents that were gathered in order to fulfill the suit were never provided for me.
They simply sat on them.
So I would be personally curious why I never got this stuff I was asked before.
But that's my own thing.
I'm very curious, since the computer is good at record keeping in some ways.
All you have to do if you purge the records from the online catalog is keep a tape.
Keep a tape of those purged records.
Why is it?
There are no records of all those books that went to the dump.
Well, that's a brilliant question.
I mean, what happened to those records?
Why is it that it was considered a matter of... It was so difficult.
It was so... I know he has an answer for this.
What do you think the answer would be?
I mean, not for that question.
I don't know what the answer to that one would be.
The question about the...
card catalog, you know, I asked to see it before the speech.
Well, I think the question is, did you order the books to go to the landfill?
Was this something that emanated from your office?
Yes or no?
I mean, what's the answer to that?
That's it.
And I'm sure he'll say no, because he said, I'm not a hands-on kind of person.
I delegate.
Other people did it.
The thing to know about the old library is
that the smoking room, the smoking area, is right next to the discard room.
Okay?
Dowlin is a smoker.
The people who were the smokers were the ones who got the most detailed understanding of the fact that books were being sent to the dump.
Those books that were going on the back of the DPW trucks were going to the dump.
And he knew that.
Even if he had not said to somebody, to his, you know, A-team, send the books to the dump, if he was a guy who believed that those books should be preserved, the first time he had a cigarette and saw the books loaded onto the DPW truck, he ought to have put a stop to it.
Well, what's going on here?
What's happening here?
The question would be...
I mean, this isn't even deaccessioning.
Deaccessioning is a process.
And you do, and as you put deaccessioning, you keep records.
And you keep records, and you study, and you make, you know, maybe this isn't in our collecting interest anymore.
Maybe, you know, I mean, this is not deaccessioning.
This is dumping.
This is getting rid of stuff.
And the reason the dumping happened was there were, I mean, there were several reasons, one of which was, unfortunately,
The library was given a huge amount of money to spend, and they spent it on books.
And they ought to have spent it on books.
But the branches had no room, and so they sent their books back to the main.
And there was no program in place to evaluate which books ought to be kept as part of the research collection and which should get thrown out.
And of course, it was bad press.
The idea that you would be giving a library
the voters would have given the library lots and lots of money from Proposition E, and then lots and lots of old books would be falling out the door, even if they were being given away.
It's just, you know, that's a bad public relations thing.
Of course you have to do it quietly.
So they would, you know, once the bad press started getting up, they would cover up the top of the books.
The books would be covered up with, say, a mattress pad.
More recently, there was a load of books that came from the library, and they put four-by-eight plywood panels on the side, so you couldn't see that there were books.
And the books were on boxes and everything.
And those books, I think, were books that were being dumped, but they were books that were actually gifts from outside to be put on sale, and then for one reason they didn't get sold.
There's no space.
Some of those books have to get thrown out.
But, of course, they can't tell, you know.
Very, very, very interesting.
Another thing, the sculptor is amazing.
I said, you know, this library has been open for a little more than a year, and already not only is it full, there's no room for what you have.
How could you possibly...
be preparing for the next century.
What now is in place for future acquisitions?
He said, well, you know, we spent so much money on new books, four and a half million dollars, that we filled it up a lot faster than, I mean, filled it up fast and filled it up overnight.
But that's the kind of answer that he gives you, that we spent four and a half million dollars, and I'm going to ask for that information.
I'd love to know precisely.
I said, do you have any numbers on titles, really?
I said, I
They're actually renting books.
The women told me that there's a service, that they rent bestsellers.
Yeah, they do rent bestsellers.
They did spend a ton of money on books, but, you know, it's like eight copies of the Rough Guy Degrees or something.
Why?
Because, well, that's legit, because the public wants certain kinds of books, you know?
And so you've got to buy a lot of copies.
When you have a huge branch system, the way this has, you have to buy 10, 12 copies of certain popular books.
But, you know, I mean, I guess you can say you have to.
But you could also say that the library's task is not to give the public
exactly what it wants.
It's sort of like a dictionary.
You don't want to fossilize every bit of bad usage.
You want to be a little bit better, maybe, than the prevailing norm.
And so if you're building a collection, you want maybe not to
attempt to duplicate the bestseller list because and to compete with the big book chains because you know they're doing a very good job at getting the public books that were widely available that they want right now i mean the library also has a as a function that goes beyond providing the book that everybody wants to read today the point the library is supposed to be partly um the the community's memory and
You know, the book that was popular in 1912 is an interesting book to have, even if it's not asked for, you know, one decade to the next now.
And the library, the San Francisco Public Library, until very recently, classed itself as and treated itself as a research library, a depository library that would hold on to that sort of book.
And that's where I think Dallin is to blame.
Dallin has said in print that the SFPL is a public library, not a research library.
Or, no, not a research facility, which is an interesting kind of way of jazzing up the terminology.
But that's a spurious distinction.
It's not a research facility.
The New York Public Library is a public library and a research facility.
And, in fact, many public libraries, any number of other libraries.
Boston has one of the finest.
Chicago.
Philadelphia.
Cleveland has extraordinary.
Believe it or not.
Every city of the size of San Francisco has a public library that is also a research library.
A research library.
I mean, they have absolutely an area set aside for special collections with special reading areas.
You know, you have to have your number two pencils.
I mean, you're monitored.
I mean, this is...
But the collection development plan, which is a big document, specifically went through all the components by call number and gave them a numerical, assigned them a number from one to six, or zero to six, I guess.
Zero meaning not collected and six meaning comprehensively collected.
And so, and this group of people who was, the collection development plan was, I think, requested by Dallin and was overseen by Kathy Page.
And the result of it was to make a set of value judgments about what part of the collection should be research level.
I think only a very few words then.
And what parts of the, oh, you're going to lose that.
Shall we go in?
Yeah.
You're going to lose that.
Oh, I won't lose it.
This was in the discard room that same day.
The growth of literature by Chadwick.
Here's a multi-volume account.
They would discard a book if they only had one volume of it.
That was an amazing thing.
Wait, do that again?
If they only had one volume of the multi-volume set, or no, if they had a multi-volume set and one volume was missing, that was one of the sort of rules of thumb for discarding.
So if they had four volumes of the elephant folio autobahn and not the fifth.
I'm just saying that's kind of the... Right.
Look at this.
Look at the binding on that tomorrow.
What's the title of that?
I don't know.
This is...
History of Germany, Deutsche Geschichte, Karl Lamprecht, L-A-N-P-R-E-C-H-T.
And this is the first Peter Bond of the fifth book.
I don't remember if I checked whether this is the last copy or not.
Well, it's not.
You'd be surprised, because the library was really good about keeping dupes and kids.
Here's this.
I like this.
Thompson's History of Rome, Volume 2.
I would have done anything to have that book when I was one of the ages of madness.
Thompson, the guy that's there, his hair caught on fire.
And when he was reading a book in his library,
He was one of these persons that was basically killed from reading.
I mean, literally.
Did you just read the text?
I missed that one.
I was just reading with great pleasure the Texas chapter.
Oh, the Texas chapter's great.
I see this chapter being a lot like the Texas chapter.
These, some of these, now I've got, like, supersonic cruise technology, and I think Ruskin's Seven Lamps of Architecture are probably, uh,
from later, when I went back at one point later and got him.
I think Ruskin, but there's a dupe.
See, I mean, this is sad this book was being given away, because it's obviously going to have value.
I would like it.
But there are other copies of Ruskin and Weisler.
Give me a second.
You realize that this is a Nobel laureate.
And look at the use of that book received.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Look at this.
One, two.
This is from 81 to 85.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17.
Checkouts.
17 checkouts.
And that's just, that's before, see, 81 is when they started that system before that.
had the little pocket and that's when you i'm just saying from 1981 tonight's over a four-year period and this book was published in 1911 this is volume two of the history of rome by momson uh and what year did he die this is about this is very close to the year that he died but it's but it's volume two it's scriptures um uh 1911
And because this is volume two, clearly something happened to volume one, and so they dumped it.
Well, that was one of the things that people thought, that the guy told me one of the reasons why books would be conspired.
The main reason was conditions.
What's wrong with this?
Nothing, nothing.
But library bindings were also, you know, you wanted a library with lots of nice, fresh new books, and so library bindings were kind of... You know, books are meant to be used.
John Silver at BU, I want books to be abused.
I want people to handle them.
I want them to use them.
I want sweating.
That's what a book is for.
I don't want to see books in great condition, but that means nobody's reading them.
That's right.
My feeling about a library binding is I know that book
has gotten a lot of wear and tear that lots of people have wanted.
It's a piece of information about a book.
By the way, I was a temp for John Silver.
Is that right?
You're kidding.
I typed his personal course on it.
This is our second album.
In Boston.
Father Boyle.
Silver is in the Texas chapter.
I just read it.
He's good.
I have nice quotes.
He's a little difficult to work for, but that's okay.
I once misspelled Armagnac.
I spelled it A-R-M-A-N-I-A-C.
Oh, jeez.
In a personal letter, he was writing to a big wine dealer saying, you know, could we have a case of Armagnac or something.
And I spelled it Armagnac.
And I got these scrawled marginal comments about, oh, we're not talking about braised Armenians.
It's, look it up.
Oh, no, he didn't tell me the spelling.
He said, look it up.
And I've never forgotten the spelling of Armagnac.
It's got a G. Thanks to silver, I know it.
I, you know, I was 24 at the time, which is, I mean, who knows, maybe at 40 I would have known the spelling of Armagnac, I don't know.
Yeah, but what he taught you there, if it's not the spelling of Armagnac, he taught you to look things up.
Yeah, I mean, you're not sure of the spelling.
I mean, I think he, you know, I'm not in accord with all his political beliefs, and I think he was a digital manager, but he's unquestionably a bright man, and, you know, the
He'd have been a very interesting governor, that's for sure.
But here's another one, the Principles of Science that treat us on logic and scientific method.
The library decided the natural history and science collection, they went through.
They just went through it, and they decided it was not
Well, anyway, we've done another one.
This is one I liked.
This is an out-of-date book.
This was not in the discard room.
Most of the books I've been showing you, I walked out straight from the discard room.
This was later in one of the giveaways.
What is it?
Photomicrographs of Iron and Steel.
Photomicrographs.
You wrote about a lot of these, I think.
Photomicrographs of Iron and Steel, 1929.
I don't think I did write about this one.
Because, obviously, there are a lot of new books with Photo of My Progressive Iron and Steel.
The fact is, however, the library doesn't have enough money to buy those books, because they have tiny acquisitions budgets right now.
Tiny.
Did the librarians tell you about that?
Yeah, I did.
Read.
Read, yeah.
But the other thing is that one might be...
Everett, with two Ts, L. Reed.
This is the last copy.
So they were getting rid of this.
Now, I can't tell you how I would use this as a researcher, but I would want to respect the possibility that this book would be able to tell some future user of the library something about steel technology in 1929 that would be of value.
And it's exactly the kind of book that you would want a great library the whole time.
It's not even up to you to decide.
You know, I mean, it has to be there.
Ken Carpenter at Harvard told me, you know, I said, does it, do you have an idea of how soon a book, he used to buy books for the Kress Library.
I said, do you apply a 10-year rule to a 20-year rule?
Listen, when I was buying books for the Kress Library, I was buying 18th century books that were uncut, which means they hadn't been read in 200 years.
He said, and I'm buying this book, and he said, the chances are it may not be read for another 200 years, but that's not the point.
He said, the finest business school library in the world should have a copy of that book, and that's why I bought it, and it should be there.
That's the criterion that you apply.
If you're a sensible, he's buying, he sends stuff off to the Harvard Depository, which means outside of Cambridge, in stores, basically, that is brand new that he's buying right now.
I said, you're kidding me.
I said, brand new books that you're buying?
You're sending?
I said, how do you?
He said, I was afraid that when I told people about that, they might say to me, then why buy the book if you know already that you're not going to use it?
And he said, but you know what?
Nobody raised it.
Nobody whippered.
If these are books, fine.
There is no call for it, but that doesn't mean it's not a book we don't have to have.
So they're buying books right now that they know that they're not going to use, and they're going straight to storage.
Yeah, but even, you know, people like me page stuff from storage all the time.
And it takes 24 hours.
Right, big deal.
Berkeley has a place called NRLF, which is, you know, wonderful.
I mean, I get on a 24-hour cycle.
I'm a big user.
So it's not like it'll never be used, even if it's in remote storage.
It's, you know...
The problem with remote storage, however, is you have to know it's there.
Yeah, yeah.
And these places are, you know, stored with big boxes with one numerical code.
It's barcoded.
Yeah.
The guy at the Harvard Depository says to me, if I had a Gutenberg Bible, it would have a barcode on it.
I mean, I wouldn't know what was in the box.
Everything comes barcoded, and it's strictly stored according to size.
And the Library of Congress is doing that now.
They're all following the Harvard model, by the way.
The Harvard model itself goes something to see.
I'm going to start a chapter out there in the depository.
Great.
The Valley of the Kings of Books, I call it.
That's why we're talking about it.
So let's go in.
This is good, you know.
But I like this.
I bought this from the gift shop because this is what the actual card catalog looks like.
Or no, it's been moved now.
This is the old card catalog.
That's still there.
It was there when I... These are what, cards?
This is the card catalog.
What is this?
Oh, these are gifty, shoppy kind of boxes.
Cards?
Yeah, cards.
about the libraries that the most, well, I think I said that in the piece I read, that the most popular thing that the gift shop was selling back when the library opened was this little set of postcards, and each postcard was an image of a catalog card.
And here's the other thing they chose to show was a picture, not of the new building.
This is the actual old building with the old, this is the way it was decorated.
It's a very ornate cocktail.
I think it's now down in Brooks, but I'm not allowed to.
I hope that's still for sale.
Okay, we'll have some lunch.
I hope so.
You are locked down on the porch.
Yeah.
Okay, well then I'll put it on there.
I'd love it.
Do you mind if I sit down over here?
I mean, you're a fiction writer.
This is outside.
You've written a lot of essays, and you write regularly for The New Yorker, and you certainly have written about life.
I mean, this is not necessarily the kind of thing that you get involved in, right?
No, but it turns out that I have this latent... Let's just grab some of this.
there's certain things that I think are bad and wrong and that I can do something about them and I end up wanting to do it.
So I didn't know that.
I felt that I was going to be this apolitical kind of guy.
But the books part is, you know, the card catalogs thing was what first sucked me in because I didn't, I really,
I knew that my own research was going to be hurt if I was limited to the online catalog because I would be missing another way into the stacks, into the remote stacks.
Now that books are stored off-site or enclosed stacks, you've got to have every possible avenue available.
You've got to use bibliographies, footnotes in the back of articles, the web, news groups, friends.
asking me, you know, what are the books that are important on this subject?
And online catalogs, and also card catalogs, because they often have, you know, stuff you wouldn't find any other way.
So I got really distressed about that.
Did you tell your wife that I've seen Father Boyle in Italy?
Yeah, that's cool.
So, uh,
He was at the Vatican.
He was at the Vatican Library then, yeah.
Yeah, oh yeah.
He's the chief whatever.
The prefect.
That's what it's called.
That's what it's called, yeah.
Why don't you start?
He had this true connoisseurial knowledge.
Which is exactly why I've decided to open the institutional discussion.
I'm going to define the context of that one with Harvard and Cornell.
It would be very easy to start with... They don't want to pay somebody to be careful with the book.
Xerox, I think, is working on a machine that would be able to take images without
It would turn pages automatically.
But the big hurdle with making copies of books that are bound is that you've got to pay somebody to put them carefully down on one of those angled Xerox machines and do it.
But they've been doing that with microfilm for years, but it's expensive.
I think the rule of thumb is that it costs a dollar a page to scan a book.
That's right.
Up or down?
It's coming down a little bit.
But so the cost, the labor intensiveness, and the cost of the processing costs are fabulously expensive.
So my feeling is that they have to either wait until the costs come down, because the books aren't going to go anywhere as long as they're stored carefully on the shelf, or build into the scanning program, the digitalization program, a curatorial
level of care.
You can take a copy of that 18th century book without... They're not doing 18th century books.
The ones that you saw that were all filleted.
A lot of 19th century books.
No, they're not doing that with any of the 18th century books.
They're very responsible at Cornell.
You and I have a different attitude, I think, but
You can't fault them for the professional way they're going about it.
I mean, everything's out front.
And then, you know, digital... Then you look at what they did.
I really went out there to look at the Cambodia project.
This is, you know...